---
title: 面向教室又面向对象的程序设计语言编译器。COOL compiler
categories: [Learning]
tags: [compiler, bash]
---

**THIS IS A WORK-IN-PROGRESS**

This post will be a summary of programming assignments of
[this free course](https://learning.edx.org/course/course-v1:StanfordOnline+SOE.YCSCS1+3T2020) on edx.
These programming assignments builds a compiler for the COOL programming. This language is a bit odd and quirky but it's
quite more complex than the language of [a previous work]({% post_url 2022-10-17-write-an-interpreter-in-go %}).
Compared that project, this compiler for COOL seems more serious and covers more ground in the field of compiling.
Do note that aforementioned interpreter project has a sequel that builds a compilers where a VM and byte code is
designed and implemented. This COOL compiler will compile to MIPS assembly which is a well established architecture.

I am quite surprised to see that prompted by my paragraph above, `Bing Compose` is able to generate the following
content. Besides being quite generic and lacking personality, it does not quite capture my experience working with these
programming assignments. I think its style is more akin to those marketing brochures. However, I do believe that given
further prompts, it is able to generate better content.

> Hi there! In this blog post, I'm going to share with you my experience of taking a free course on edx that teaches how
> to build a compiler for the COOL programming language. If you're interested in learning more about compilers and how
> they work, this course might be a good fit for you.
>
> What is COOL?
>
> COOL stands for Classroom Object-Oriented Language. It is a computer programming language designed by Alexander Aiken
> for use in an undergraduate compiler course project . COOL resembles many modern programming languages, including
> features such as objects, static typing, automatic memory management, and simple reflection . COOL is not meant to be
> a
> practical language for real-world applications, but rather a pedagogical tool for learning about compiler design and
> implementation.
>
> What does the course cover?
>
> The course is called "Compilers: Theory and Practice" and it's offered by Stanford University on edx. The course
> consists of six modules that cover different aspects of compiler construction:
>
> - Lexical analysis
> - Parsing
> - Semantic analysis
> - Code generation
> - Optimization
> - Runtime systems
>
> Each module has video lectures, quizzes, readings, and a programming assignment. The programming assignments are the
> main focus of the course, as they require you to implement various components of a COOL compiler using C++ and
> Flex/Bison. The assignments are graded automatically using an online submission system.
>
> What did I learn?
>
> I learned a lot from this course about how compilers work and how to write one from scratch. Some of the topics that I
> found particularly interesting and challenging were:
>
> - How to use regular expressions and finite automata to recognize tokens in a source program
> - How to use context-free grammars and parsing algorithms to build abstract syntax trees
> - How to use symbol tables and type checking rules to perform semantic analysis
> - How to use code generation techniques such as register allocation and instruction selection to produce MIPS assembly code
> - How to use optimization techniques such as dead code elimination and constant folding to improve the performance of the generated code
> - How to use runtime systems such as stack frames and garbage collection to manage memory allocation
>
> I also learned how to use some tools that are commonly used in compiler development, such as:
>
> - Flex: A tool for generating scanners (lexical analyzers) from regular expressions
> - Bison: A tool for generating parsers (syntax analyzers) from context-free grammars
> - Spim: A MIPS simulator that can execute assembly code generated by the COOL compiler
>
> How did I find the course?
>
> I found the course very engaging and rewarding. The lectures were clear and concise, the quizzes were helpful for
> checking my understanding, the readings were informative and relevant, and the assignments were challenging but fun.
> The
> instructors were very knowledgeable and responsive, answering questions on the discussion forums or via email. The
> online submission system was easy to use and provided instant feedback on my solutions.
>
> The only downside of the course was that it was quite demanding in terms of time commitment. Each assignment took me
> several hours or even days to complete, depending on its complexity. I had to balance my time between watching
> lectures, doing quizzes, reading materials, coding solutions, testing them, and debugging them.
> It was not an easy task, especially since I had other commitments outside of this course.
> However, I think it was worth it, as I gained valuable skills and knowledge that will help me in my future endeavors.
>
> Who should take this course?
>
> This course is suitable for anyone who has some background in programming (preferably C++) and wants to learn more
> about compilers. It is not necessary to have prior experience with compilers or assembly language,
> but it would be helpful if you have some familiarity with basic concepts such as data structures,
> algorithms, and discrete mathematics.
> The course is also suitable for anyone who enjoys solving problems, learning new things, and creating something cool
> (pun intended) programs.
>
> Conclusion
>
> In conclusion,
> this course was one of the best online courses I've ever taken.
> It taught me how to build a compiler for a fairly complex programming language using modern tools and techniques.
> It also challenged me intellectually and creatively,
> making me think deeply about various aspects of compiler design and implementation.
> I highly recommend this course to anyone who wants to learn more about compilers or just have some fun with
> programming.
>
> If you're interested in taking this course,
> you can find it here:
> https://www.edx.org/course/compilers-theory-and-practice
>
> Thanks for reading!
