---
title: 伯恩命令解释器常识。Bash 101
categories: [Learning]
tags: [linux, bash]
---

# command expansions

## Simple expansion

- Tilde expansion: `echo ~` yields `/home/dev`
- Parameter expansion: `echo $winIp` yields `172.18.112.1`

## Arithmetic expansion

Bash shell does not natively support floating-point arithmetic. However, you can use the `bc` command to perform
floating-point arithmetic in Bash. `bc` is an arbitrary precision calculator language that can handle floating-point
numbers.

```shell
$ echo $(( 2 + 2 ))
4
$ echo $(( 2 * 3 ))
6
$ echo $(( 10 / 2 ))
5
$ echo $(( 10 % 3 ))
1
$ echo $(( 2 ** 3 ))
8
$ echo "scale=4; 22/7" | bc
3.1428
$ echo "scale=7; 333/106" | bc
3.1415094
```

In the above example, we used the `$(( ))` syntax to perform integer arithmetic expansion. The scale variable is used to
specify the number of decimal places to display in the result. In this case, we set it to 2 to display two decimal
places. The `|` symbol (vertical line i.e. pipe symbol) is used to pipe the output of the echo command to bc.

## Pathname expansion

Pathname expansion is used to generate a list of filenames that match a pattern. Here are some examples of pathname
expansion:

- `echo *` yields all files in the current directory
- `echo *.txt` yields all files in the current directory that end with .txt
- `echo /usr/*/share` yields all directories in `/usr` that have a subdirectory called `share`
- `echo ./test/input-*.txt` yields all `input-1.txt`, `input-2.txt`, `input-999.txt`.
- `echo "*.dat*` yields all file and directory names that contain `.dat`.

Grouped brace expansion is also supported.For example, if you have a large collection of images you want to organize
into years and months, you can create a series of directories named in numeric “Year-Month” format. This way, the
directory names will sort in chronological order. Instead of typing out a complete list of directories, you can use
pathname expansion to create them quickly and easily. Here’s an example:

## Brace expansion

- `echo chapter{1..3}` yields `chapter1 chapter2 chapter3`.
- `echo {A..Z..2}` yields `A C E G I K M O Q S U W Y`.
- `echo {a..c}" "{1..3}` yields `a 1 a 2 a 3 b 1 b 2 b 3 c 1 c 2 c 3`. Note that blank space is quoted.
- `echo {a..c}{x,y}{1..3}` yields `ax1 ax2 ax3 ay1 ay2 ay3 bx1 bx2 bx3 by1 by2 by3 cx1 cx2 cx3 cy1 cy2 cy3`.

Pathname expansion is commonly used to create lists of files or directories to be created. For example, if you have a
large collection of images you want to organize into years and months, you can create a series of directories named in
numeric “Year-Month” format. This way, the directory names will sort in chronological order. Instead of typing out a
complete list of directories, you can use pathname expansion to create them quickly and easily. Here’s an example:

```shell
$ mkdir Photos
$ cd Photos
$ mkdir {2017..2019}-{01..12}
$ echo {2017..2019}-{01..12}
2017-01 2017-02 2017-03 2017-04 2017-05 2017-06 2017-07 2017-08 2017-09 2017-10 2017-11 2017-12
2018-01 2018-02 2018-03 2018-04 2018-05 2018-06 2018-07 2018-08 2018-09 2018-10 2018-11 2018-12
2019-01 2019-02 2019-03 2019-04 2019-05 2019-06 2019-07 2019-08 2019-09 2019-10 2019-11 2019-12
```

This will create directories named 2017-01, 2017-02, 2017-03, and so on, up to 2019-12.

## Command substitution

Command substitution allows you to use the output of a command as an argument to another command.
For example, `echo $(date)` will print the current date and time.

```shell
$ echo "The current date is `date +%Y-%m-%d`"
The current date is 2023-03-19
```
